.TH curlftpfs 1 "25 May 2007" "CurlFtpFS 0.9.2" "CurlFtpFS Manual"
.SH NAME
curlftpfs \- mount a ftp host as a local directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B curlftpfs [options]
.I host path
.SH DESCRIPTION
The program
.B curlftpfs
is a tool to mount remote ftp hosts as local directories. It connects to the
.I host
FTP server and maps its directory structure to the
.I path
directory.

curlftpfs is powered by libcurl for all transfer-related features. See
.BR libcurl (3)
for details. The filesystem part is implemented on top of FUSE.
See
.BR http://fuse.sourceforge.net/
for details.
.SH FTP OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-h/--help"
Print help options.
.TP
.B "-v/--verbose"
Make libcurl print verbose debug output.
.TP
.B "-V/--version"
Print curlftpfs, libcurl and fuse versions.
.TP
.B \-o
Options are specified with a
.B \-o
flag followed by a comma separated string of options. 
.RS
.TP
.B cacert=<file>
(SSL) Pass a string naming a file holding
one or more certificates to verify the peer with.

Note  that  option  is  by  default set to the system path where
libcurl's cacert bundle is assumed to be stored, as  established
at build time.
.TP
.B capath=<directory>
(SSL) Tells curlftpfs to use the specified certificate directory to verify the
peer. The certificates must be in PEM format, and the directory must have been
processed using  the  c_rehash  utility supplied  with  openssl.  Using
\fBcapath\fP can allow curlftpfs to make connections much more
efficiently than using  \fBcacert\fP  if the \fBcacert\fP file contains many CA
certificates.
.TP
.B cert=<certificate>
(SSL) Tells curlftpfs to use the specified certificate file. The default format
is "PEM" and can be changed with \fBcert_type\fP.
.TP
.B cert_type=<type>
(SSL) Tells curlftpfs what certificate type the provided certificate is in.
PEM, DER and ENG are recognized types.
.TP
.B ciphers=<list of ciphers>
(SSL) Specifies which ciphers to use in the connection. The list must be
syntactically correct, it consists of one or more cipher strings separated  by
colons. Commas or spaces
are also acceptable separators but colons are normally used, , - and + can
be  used  as operators.  Valid  examples  of  cipher lists include 'RC4-SHA',
\'SHA1+DES', 'TLSv1' and 'DEFAULT'. The default list is  normally
set when you compile OpenSSL.

Read up on SSL cipher list details
on this URL: \fIhttp://www.openssl.org/docs/apps/ciphers.html\fP
.TP
.B codepage=<name>
Sets the encoding the ftp server uses to encode file names.
.TP
.B connect_timeout=<seconds>
Maximum time in seconds that you allow the connection to the server to take.
This only limits the connection phase, once curlftpfs has connected this option
is of no more use.
.TP
.B custom_list=<command>
Command used by curlftpfs to list files. The default is "LIST -a" but some
servers might require extra options, e.g. "LIST -la".
.TP
.B disable_eprt
Tell curlftpfs to disable the use of the EPRT and LPRT commands when doing
active FTP transfers. Curlftpfs will normally always first attempt to use EPRT,
then LPRT before using PORT, but with this option, it will use PORT right
away. EPRT and LPRT are extensions to the original FTP protocol, may not work
on all servers but enable more functionality in a better way than the
traditional PORT command.
.TP
.B disable_epsv
Tell curlftpfs to disable the use of the EPSV command when doing passive FTP
transfers. This is the default.
.TP
.B enable_epsv
Tell curlftpfs to enable the use of the EPSV command when doing passive FTP
transfers. Curlftpfs will first attempt to use EPSV before PASV.
.TP
.B engine=<name>
Select  the  OpenSSL crypto engine to use for cipher operations.  Use: 
.br
.B "curl \-\-engine list"
.br
to  print  a  list  of  build-time  supported engines.  Note  that  not
all  (or  none) of the engines may be available at run-time.
.TP
.B ftpfs_debug
Make curlftpfs print lots of debug information. Useful only in conjunction with
the
.B \-d
option.
.TP
.B ftp_method=<method>
Control what method curlftpfs should use to reach a file on the
server. The method argument should be one of the following alternatives:
.RS
.IP multicwd
curlftpfs does a single CWD operation for each path part in the given URL. For
deep hierarchies this means very many commands. This is how RFC1738 says it
should be done. This is the default but the slowest behavior.
.IP singlecwd
curlftpfs does one CWD with the full target directory and then operates on the
file \&"normally" (like in the multicwd case). 
.RE
.TP
.B ftp_port=<address>
Reverses the initiator/listener roles when connecting with ftp. This
switch makes curlftpfs use the PORT command instead of PASV. In practice, PORT
tells the server to connect to the client's specified address and port, while
PASV asks the server for an ip address and port to connect to. <address>
should be one of:
.RS
.IP interface
i.e "eth0" to specify which interface's IP address you want to use
.IP "IP address"
i.e "192.168.10.1" to specify exact IP number
.IP "host name"
i.e "my.host.domain" to specify machine
.IP "-"
make curlftpfs pick the same IP address that is already used for the control
connection
.RE
.RS

Disable the
attempt to use the EPRT command instead of PORT by using \fIdisable_eprt\fP.
EPRT is really PORT++.
.RE
.TP
.B httpproxy
Set the proxy type to HTTP. This is the default type.
.TP
.B interface=<name>
Pass a string as parameter. This set the interface name  to  use as  outgoing
network  interface.  The  name can be an interface name, an IP address or a
host name.
.TP
.B iocharset=<name>
Sets the charset used by the client side for codepage to charset translation.
Default: UTF8.
.TP
.B ipv4
If  libcurl  is  capable  of resolving an address to multiple IP versions
(which it is if it is ipv6-capable), this option  tells libcurl  to  resolve
names  to  IPv4  addresses only.
.TP
.B ipv6
If  libcurl  is  capable  of resolving an address to multiple IP versions
(which it is if it is ipv6-capable), this option  tells libcurl  to  resolve
names  to  IPv6  addresses only.
.TP
.B key=<key>
(SSL) Private key file name. Allows you to provide your private key in this
separate file. The  default format is "PEM" and can be changed with
\fBkey_type\fP.
.TP
.B key_type=<type>
(SSL) Pass a string in
the format of your private key. Supported  formats are "PEM", "DER" and
"ENG".

The  format  "ENG"  enables  you  to load the private key from a crypto engine.
In this case \fBkey\fP is used as an identifier  passed to  the  engine.
You have to set the crypto engine with \fBengine\fP option.  "DER" format key
file  currently  does not work because of a bug in OpenSSL.
.TP
.B krb4=<level>
Enable kerberos4 authentication and use. The level must be entered and should
be one of 'clear', 'safe', 'confidential'  or 'private'.  Should  you  use  a
level that is not one of these, 'private' will instead be used.

This option requires that the libcurl library was built  with  kerberos4
support.  This is  not  very common.
.TP
.B no_verify_hostname
(SSL) Curlftpfs will not verify the hostname when connecting to a SSL enabled
server.
.TP
.B no_verify_peer
(SSL) Curlftpfs will not verify the certificate when connecting to a SSL
enabled server.
.TP
.B pass=<password>
(SSL) Pass phrase for the private key.
.TP
.B proxy=<host[:port]>
Use specified HTTP proxy. If the port number is  not  specified, it is assumed
at port 1080.

This  option  overrides existing environment variables that sets
proxy to use. If  there's  an  environment  variable  setting  a proxy, you can
set proxy to "" to override it.

This options implies the \fBproxytunnel\fP option.

Starting  with libcurl version 7.14.1, the proxy host can be specified the
exact same way as the proxy environment  variables,  including protocol prefix
(http://) and embedded user + password.
.TP
.B proxytunnel
Tells curlftpfs to use a tunnel proxy. This option is implied by the 
\fBproxy\fP option but you need to set it manually if you use the \fIproxy\fP
environment variable.
.TP
.B proxy_anyauth
Tells curl to pick a suitable authentication method when  communicating  with
the  given  proxy.  This  will  cause  an  extra request/response round-trip.
.TP
.B proxy_basic
Tells curlftpfs to use HTTP Basic authentication when communicating with the
given proxy. Basic is the default authentication method curlftpfs is used with
proxies.
.TP
.B proxy_digest
Tells  curlftpfs to use HTTP Digest authentication when communicating with the
given proxy.
.TP
.B proxy_ntlm
Tells curlftpfs to use HTTP NTLM  authentication  when  communicating with the
given proxy.
.TP
.B proxy_user=<user:password>
Specify user and password to use for proxy authentication.
.TP
.B skip_pasv_ip
Tell curlftpfs to not use the IP address the server suggests in its response
to curlftpfs's PASV command when curlftpfs connects the data connection.
Instead curlftpfs will re-use the same IP address it already uses for the
control connection.
.TP
.B socks4
Set the proxy type to SOCKS4.
.TP
.B socks5
Set the proxy type to SOCKS5.
.TP
.B ssl
Make curlftpfs use SSL/TLS for both control and data connections.
.TP
.B sslv3
Forces curlftpfs to use SSL version 3 when negotiating with a remote SSL
server.
.TP
.B ssl_control
Make curlftpfs use SSL/TLS only for the control connection.
.TP
.B ssl_try
Curlftpfs will try to use SSL/TLS for both the control and data connections
but if the server doesn't support it, it will still connect unencrypted.
.TP
.B tcp_nodelay
Turn on the TCP_NODELAY option. See the \fIcurl_easy_setopt(3)\fP man page for
details about this option.
.TP
.B tlsv1
(SSL) Forces curlftpfs to use TLS version 1 when negotiating with a remote TLS
server.
.TP
.B transform_symlinks
Append
.I path
to the absolute symlinks so that they still point inside the ftp directory
structure. Otherwise those links will very probably be broken.
.TP
.B user=<user:password>
Specify  user  and  password  to  use for server authentication.  Overrides
netrc configuration.
.TP
.B utf8
Try to transfer file list with UTF-8 encoding. Send OPTS UTF8 ON at the  
beginning of file list transfer.
.SH FUSE OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-d"
Enable FUSE debug output. Implies \fB-f\fP.
.TP
.B "-f"
Run curlftpfs in foreground mode.
.TP
.B "-r"
Mount read-only.
.TP
.B "-s"
Disable multi-threaded operation.
.TP
.B \-o
Options are specified with a
.B \-o
flag followed by a comma separated string of options. 
.RS
.TP
.B allow_other
Allow access to other users. By default the mount point is only accessible to
the user that mounted it and not even to root.
.TP
.B allow_root
Allow access to root user. By default the mount point is only accessible to
the user that mounted it and not even to root.
.TP
.B debug
enable debug output
.TP
.B direct_io
use direct I/O
.TP
.B fsname=NAME
set filesystem name in mtab
.TP
.B gid=N
set file group
.TP
.B hard_remove
immediate removal (don't hide files)
.TP
.B kernel_cache
Let the kernel VFS do some caching of the files.
.TP
.B large_read
issue large read requests (2.4 only)
.TP
.B max_read=N
set maximum size of read requests
.TP
.B nonempty
allow mounts over non-empty file/dir
.TP
.B readdir_ino
try to fill in d_ino in readdir
.TP
.B uid=N
set file owner
.TP
.B umask=M
set file permissions (octal)
.TP
.B use_ino
let filesystem set inode numbers
.SH AUTHORS
Robson Braga Araujo is the author and maintainer of CurlFtpFS.
.SH WWW
http://curlftpfs.sourceforge.net
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mount (8)
